Updates "Security" page with Kenton's blog post content (#88)
cloudflare/workers-docs-engine: src/content/learning/security-model.md

One such process in particular, which we call the "supervisor", is responsible for fetching worker code and configuration from disk or from other internal services. The supervisor ensures that the sandbox process cannot read any configuration except that which is relevant to the workers that it should be running.

For example, when the sandbox process receives a request for a worker it hasn't seen before, that request includes the encryption key for that worker's code (including attached secrets). The sandbox can then pass that key to the supervisor in order to request the code. The sandbox cannot request any worker for which it has not received the appropriate key. It cannot enumerate known workers. It also cannot request configuration it doesn't need; for example, it cannot request the TLS key used for HTTPS traffic to the worker.

Aside from reading configuration, the other reason for the sandbox to talk to other processes on the system is to implement APIs exposed to Workers. Which brings us to API design.

### API Design

> There is a saying: "If a tree falls in the forest, but no one is there to hear it, does it make a sound?" I have a related saying: "If a Worker executes in a fully-isolated environment in which it is totally prevented from communicating with the outside world, does it actually run?"

Author: ```suggestion
There is a saying: "If a tree falls in the forest, but no one is there to hear it, does it make a sound?" We have a related saying: "If a Worker executes in a fully-isolated environment in which it is totally prevented from communicating with the outside world, does it actually run?"
```

Fortunately, we have an advantage here, in that we directly control the machines on which our system runs. We have automated almost our entire build and release process, so the moment a V8 patch is published, our systems automatically build a new release of the Workers Runtime and, after one-click sign-off from the necessary (human) reviewers, automatically push that release out to production.

As a result, our patch gap is now under 24 hours. A patch published by V8's team in Munich during their work day will usually be in production before the end of our work day in the US.

## Spectre: Introduction

![Spectre-vulnerability-@2x](https://blog-cloudflare-com-assets.storage.googleapis.com/2020/07/Spectre-vulnerability-@2x.png)
We get a lot of questions about Spectre. The V8 team at Google has stated in no uncertain terms that [V8 itself cannot defend against Spectre](https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.05178). Since Workers relies on V8 for sandboxing, many have asked if that leaves Workers vulnerable. However, we do not need to depend on V8 for this; the Workers environment presents many alternative approaches to mitigating Spectre.

> Spectre is complicated and nuanced, and there's no way I can cover everything there is to know about it or how Workers addresses it in a single blog post. But, hopefully I can clear up some of the confusion and concern.

Author: ```suggestion
Spectre is complicated and nuanced, and there's no way we can cover everything there is to know about it or how Workers addresses it in a single article. But, hopefully we can clear up some of the confusion and concern.
```

### Step 2: Dynamic Process Isolation

We know that if an attack is possible at all, it would take a very long time to run -- hours at the very least, maybe as long as weeks. But once an attack has been running even for a second, we have a huge amount of new data that we can use to trigger further measures.

Spectre attacks, you see, do a lot of "weird stuff" that you wouldn't usually expect to see in a normal program. These attacks intentionally try to create pathological performance scenarios in order to amplify microarchitectural effects. This is especially true when the attack has already been forced to run billions of times in a loop in order to overcome other mitigations, like those discussed above. This tends to show up in metrics like CPU performance counters.

Now, the usual problem with using performance metrics to detect Spectre attacks is that sometimes you get false positives. Sometimes, a legitimate program behaves really badly. You can't go around shutting down every app that has bad performance.

> Luckily, we don't have to. Instead, we can choose to reschedule any Worker with suspicious performance metrics into its own process. As I described above, we can't do this with every Worker, because the overhead would be too high. But, it's totally fine to process-isolate just a few Workers, defensively. If the Worker is legitimate, it will keep operating just fine, albeit with a little more overhead. Fortunately for us, the nature of our platform is such that we can reschedule a Worker into its own process at basically any time.

Author: ```suggestion
Luckily, we don't have to. Instead, we can choose to reschedule any Worker with suspicious performance metrics into its own process. As we described above, we can't do this with every Worker, because the overhead would be too high. But, it's totally fine to process-isolate just a few Workers, defensively. If the Worker is legitimate, it will keep operating just fine, albeit with a little more overhead. Fortunately for us, the nature of our platform is such that we can reschedule a Worker into its own process at basically any time.
```

In fact, fancy performance-counter based triggering may not even be necessary here. If a Worker merely uses a large amount of CPU time per event, then the overhead of isolating it in its own process is relatively less, because it switches context less often. So, we might as well use process isolation for any Worker that is CPU-hungry.

Once a Worker is isolated, then we can rely on the operating system's Spectre defenses, just aslike, for example, most desktop web browsers now do.

Over the past year we've been working with the experts at Graz Technical University to develop this approach. (TU Graz's team co-discovered Spectre itself, and has been responsible for a huge number of the follow-on discoveries since then.) We have developed the ability to dynamically isolate workers, and we have identified metrics which reliably detect attacks. The whole system is currently undergoing testing to work out any remaining bugs, and we expect to roll it out fully within the next several weeks.

> But wait, didn't I say earlier that even process isolation isn't a complete defense, because it only addresses known vulnerabilities? Yes, this is still true. However, the trend over time is that new Spectre attacks tend to be slower and slower to carry out, and hence we can reasonably guess that by imposing process isolation we have further slowed down even attacks that we don't know about yet.

Author: ```suggestion
But didn't we say earlier that even process isolation isn't a complete defense, because it only addresses known vulnerabilities? Yes, this is still true. However, the trend over time is that new Spectre attacks tend to be slower and slower to carry out, and hence we can reasonably guess that by imposing process isolation we have further slowed down even attacks that we don't know about yet.
```

### Step 3: Periodic Whole-Memory Shuffling

After Step 2, we already think we've prevented all known attacks, and we're only worried about hypothetical unknown attacks. How long does a hypothetical unknown attack take to carry out? Well, obviously, nobody knows. But with all the mitigations in place so far, and considering that new attacks have generally been slower than older ones, we think it's reasonable to guess attacks will take days or longer.

On a time scale of a day, we have new things we can do. In particular, it's totally reasonable to restart the entire Workers runtime on a daily basis, which resets the locations of everything in memory, forcing attacks to restart the process of discovering the locations of secrets.

We can also reschedule Workers across physical machines or cordons, so that the window to attack any particular neighbor is limited.

In general, because Workers are fundamentally preemptible (unlike containers or VMs), we have a lot of freedom to frustrate attacks.

Once we have dynamic process isolation fully deployed, we plan to develop these ideas next. We see this as an ongoing investment, not something that will ever be "done".

> ## Conclusion

Author: We should probably just remove this section.
